Name 3 of the less common Report Items and how you used them:

The 3 less common Report Items I have used are the Sparkline Area chart, the Image item, and the Meter Gauge.

Sparklines are small, simple charts that convey a lot of information in a little space, and it is used inline with text. There are as many types of sparklines as there are regular charts, with a few exceptions. 

The Image is a report Item that contains a reference to an image. The image can be embedded in the report, stored in a database or report server, or stored somewhere on the Web.

The Gauge Meter is a report Item that depicts a single value in a dataset. Its shape and simplicity make it easy to read, even when it is small and inside a table cell.

In a recent project I worked on, the requirement was to have an image for each product, repeated with each row of data. This was to provide an illustration of each product to make it more interesting and perhaps provide a better understanding of the report. The Image item was useful for this. In another report, I used custom green, yellow, and red icon images to highlight whether a customer was least likely to churn (green), most likely to churn (red), or somewhere in the middle (yellow). An example of churn rate is the rate at which customers stop subscribing or employees leave a job, and so forth.

Part of the same report and the requirement to provide as many visual aids as necessary to their reports, I used the Sparkline line chart inline with text to help in illustrating different trends without having the visual aid take up too much space in the report. I found this to be a very easy way to make a point, because it helps to emphasize and describe the trend as the user reads the report.

The Gauge Meter, helped to depict a single KPI value to clearly illustrate the most important measurements of the business success. Senior managers love to have a clear indication of where the successes are and how they compare with other categories, so the Gauge Meter catered to this requirement without taking up a large amount of space on the report. In fact when rows are sorted by this column, it paints an inormously clear picture of how the business is doing as the details of the report is being read.

Now, even though I have not used these 3 items on a regular basis, I have found them to be enormously useful. Of course I could have used the Indicator gauge but with the Image item the customer wanted custom images and a specific look and feel that suited their brand more appropriately.





























These are 3 really great tools in the SSRS toolkit.
Name 3 of the less common Report Items and
how you used them:

The 3 less common Report Items I have used
are the Sparkline Area chart, the Image 
item, and the Meter Gauge.

Sparklines are small, simple charts that 
convey a lot of information in a little 
space, and it is used inline with text. 
There are as many types of sparklines as 
there are regular charts, with a few 
exceptions. 

The Image is a report Item that contains 
a reference to an image. The image can be 
embedded in the report, stored in a 
database or report server, or stored 
somewhere on the Web.

The Gauge Meter is a report Item that 
depicts a single value in a dataset. Its 
shape and simplicity make it easy to read,
even when it is small and inside a table 
cell.

In a recent project I worked on, the 
requirement was to have an image for each
product, repeated with each row of data. 
This was to provide an illustration of 
each product to make it more interesting 
and perhaps provide a better understanding
of the report. The Image item was useful 
for this. In another report, I used custom
green, yellow, and red icon images to 
highlight whether a customer was least 
likely to churn (green), most likely to 
churn (red), or somewhere in the middle 
(yellow). An example of churn rate is the
rate at which customers stop subscribing 
or employees leave a job, and so forth.

Part of the same report and the 
requirement to provide as many visual 
aids as necessary to their reports, I 
used the Sparkline line chart inline with
text to help in illustrating different 
trends without having the visual aid take
up too much space in the report. I found 
this to be a very easy way to make a 
point, because it helps to emphasize and 
describe the trend as the user reads the 
report.

The Gauge Meter, helped to depict a single
KPI value to clearly illustrate the most 
important measurements of the business 
success. Senior managers love to have a 
clear indication of where the successes 
are and how they compare with other 
categories, so the Gauge Meter catered 
to this requirement without taking up a 
large amount of space on the report. In 
fact when rows are sorted by this column,
it paints an inormously clear picture of 
how the business is doing as the details 
of the report is being read.

Now, even though I have not used these 3 
items on a regular basis, I have found 
them to be enormously useful. Of course 
I could have used the Indicator gauge but
with the Image item the customer wanted 
custom images and a specific look and 
feel that suited their brand more 
appropriately.

These are 3 really great tools in the 
SSRS toolkit.
