Name 5 functions you have used in SSRS:

The 5 functions I have used in SSRS are the COUNT(),
 FORMAT(),
 DATEPART(),
 DATEDIFF(),
 and the STRING_SPLIT().


The COUNT function returns a count of non-null values that is specified 
by the expression and evaluated in the specified or current scope.


The FORMAT function,
 takes 2 string parameters.
 The first one is of the value you want to format and the second is the 
 format you want it to be in,
 for example,
 if you want a date to display as MM/dd/yyyy,
 you say Format(Date,
 'MM/dd/yyyy').
 

The DATEPART function returns the number value of a date for example: 
if you want just the year or day or month as a number.
 DATEPART(YY,
 LoanDate).


The DATEDIFF function returns the number value of the 
difference between 2 specified dates.
 DATEDIFF(YY,
 DOB,
 CurrentDate).


The STRING_SPLIT function splits a string into rows of substrings,
 based on a specified separator character,
 for example STRING_SPLIT (@LoanAmount, ',').


In a recent project I worked on,
 the requirement was to produce several 
 Business Intelligence Analytical Reports on a week-to-date,
 quarter-to-date and year-to-date basis so that the customer could 
 manage their business process better.
 They wanted to know the number of items sold ToDate,
 for a particular year,
 and the demographics like age,
 Marital Status,
 and so forth.

 
To create the "number of items sold ToDate" Pie Chart Report,
 and enable the user of the report to select any particular ToDate date,
 I used the COUNT function to aggregate the number of items sold ToDate.
 So the user could view the dates sales were made,
 the number of items sold up to that date,
 and also on any particular,
 relevant date.


For this same Report,
 I used the FORMAT function to give the user a plain and simple date format 
 that excluded the time portion and in the format of 'MM/dd/yyyy'.


Now,
 because the requirement was to produce a report for a particular year,
 I used the DATEPART function to filter out dates which did not have a particular year.
 SELECT Dates WHERE DATEPART(YY, Dates) = '2017'.


For the Age demographic,
 and because the database only held a date of birth and not the Age of a person,
 I made use of the DATEDIFF function,
 which calculated the difference between DOB and the ReportDate to give the Age of a person.
 DATEDIFF(YY, DOB, @ReportDate)

In each Report dropdownlist,
 a Report user could make multiple selections,
 so each Report Parameter could have a string of values seperated by a comma.


So,
 on the technical side,
 for the Stored Procedure being used,
 this is where the STRING_SPLIT function played an important role.
 It split the string into rows based on the comma separator,
 and this allowed a single parameter value to be identified correctly by the SP.
 STRING_SPLIT (@LoanAmount, ',').


These 5 functions played a major role in producing user friendly reports in SSRS.
















Name 5 functions you have used in SSRS:

The 5 functions I have used in SSRS are the COUNT(), FORMAT(), DATEPART(), DATEDIFF(), and the STRING_SPLIT().

The COUNT function returns a count of non-null values that is specified by the expression and evaluated in the specified or current scope.

The FORMAT function, takes 2 string parameters. The first one is of the value you want to format and the second is the format you want it to be in, for example, if you want a date to display as MM/dd/yyyy, you say Format(Date, 'MM/dd/yyyy'). 

The DATEPART function returns the number value of a date for example: if you want just the year or day or month as a number. DATEPART(YY, LoanDate).

The DATEDIFF function returns the number value of the difference between 2 specified dates. DATEDIFF(YY, DOB, CurrentDate).

The STRING_SPLIT function splits a string into rows of substrings, based on a specified separator character, for example STRING_SPLIT (@LoanAmount, ',').

In a recent project I worked on, the requirement was to produce several Business Intelligence Analytical Reports on a week-to-date, quarter-to-date and year-to-date basis so that the customer could manage their business process better. They wanted to know the number of items sold ToDate, for a particular year, and the demographics like age, Marital Status, and so forth.
 
To create the "number of items sold ToDate" Pie Chart Report, and enable the user of the report to select any particular ToDate date, I used the COUNT function to aggregate the number of items sold ToDate. So the user could view the dates sales were made, the number of items sold up to that date, and also on any particular, relevant date.

For this same Report, I used the FORMAT function to give the user a plain and simple date format that excluded the time portion and in the format of 'MM/dd/yyyy'.

Now, because the requirement was to produce a report for a particular year, I used the DATEPART function to filter out dates which did not have a particular year. SELECT Dates WHERE DATEPART(YY, Dates) = '2017'.

For the Age demographic, and because the database only held a date of birth and not the Age of a person, I made use of the DATEDIFF function, which calculated the difference between DOB and the ReportDate to give the Age of a person. DATEDIFF(YY, DOB, @ReportDate)

In each Report dropdownlist, a Report user could make multiple selections, so each Report Parameter could have a string of values seperated by a comma.

So, on the technical side, for the Stored Procedure being used, this is where the STRING_SPLIT function played an important role. It split the string into rows based on the comma separator, and this allowed a single parameter value to be identified correctly by the SP. STRING_SPLIT (@LoanAmount, ',').

These 5 functions played a major role in producing user friendly reports in SSRS.
