HOW HAVE YOU DELIVERED REPORTS TO THE END USERS

As a BI developer at Cardinal Financial, I had the 
opportunity to build and deliver reports to end users.

The Report Server provides 2 methods of setting up report 
subscriptions for the delivery of reports, the one is the 
standard or general method and the other is the data 
driven method. 

As part of my daily duties I have used both methods, 
sometimes one more than the other. So, after completing 
my reports, I deploy them to the Report Server, 
sometimes another team member gets to do the honors 
but I tend to make 100% sure that everything is 
working well and running as expected before setting up 
any subscriptions. I make sure I have the correct report 
user's parameters are matched to the correct report. And
that everything is matched properly.

I then use the Report Manager to setup either a Standard or 
data driven Subscription.

The Standard Subscription is a static Report that is sent to 
all of the Subscribers of the report and contains information 
that does not change. So it does not have parameters and access 
to these reports is relatively easy and without any retrictions.

A data driven report is one that is dynamic and is created based 
on parameters and delivered based on what access each specific 
user of that report has, what pemissions they have. So,
a user is given access to specific reports, for example as a 
BI Developer with Cardinal Financial, I was tasked to deliver
reports to various parts of the country, as well as overseas.

Sometimes the managers required reports for different specific
requirements, so I would setup the parameters to meet that 
requirement accordingly and sometimes it had something to do
with the resources, personal and private information that was 
only needed to be accessed by certain people, so it was 
essential that I setup the parameters without any failure, no
mistakes. I had to set them up so they were exactly right, and
to make sure I ran a test run to make sure the correct person 
is getting the reports and to just make sure everything is 
running as it should.

The parameters in this regard was very important and I managed 
to do that pretty well. Once I had everything going and 
running smoothly, I then scheduled the Subscriptions to run
either daily, weekly, or monthly according to each requirement.

I've sent out standard email subscriptions in the form of pdf 
or excel attachments.

I've also sent out report to a FileShare destination and those 
who had access permissions could see their reports. The access
permissions were managed from the users end via their policies. 

I've sent out emails that contain hyperlinks to the relevant 
reports which were secured requiring a username and password






















