What is a Drilldown Report and Drill through Report:

The Drilldown and drill-through report both give the user the ability to see 
the data in more detail and they do so in different ways.
 It takes the user from a more general view of the data to a more specific one.


A Drilldown Report can be created using an SSRS matrix that makes use of 
Expand and Collapse functionality to display or hide information in the report,
 so the Summary and Details are in the same report and can be accessed as desired.
 It is an hiearchy of information,
 moving from Summary to more details as more sections are expanded.
 Clicking the plus symbol expands the report and the clicking the minus 
 symbol collapses the report.


The look and feel of a Drill Down Report usually stays the same,
 maintaining a particular theme.


In a Drill-Through report,
 the Summary and Details are in different reports.
 It takes the user to a different report that is relevant to the Summary data.
 

A Drill-Through report allows the user to see data from different points of view.
 So the user is able to analyze the same data through different reports.
 These reports may have different features and different visualization methods 
 that all enhances the users’ understanding of the data.


I recently developed a Sales Dashboard that held 4 Drill-Through Reports
that was linked to 3 Drill-Down Reports.


The Client was in need of a way to track Sales activity that was based on Year,
 Territory,
 Territory Group,
 and Sales By Rep.
 This allowed the company to gain better insite into many different 
 aspects of the business.
 

For this Dashboard I used 4 different charts.


For the Sales By Year Report,
 I created a Pie Chart Drill-Through Report,
 sliced into different years.
 When the user clicks a particular year,
 a Drill-Down Matrix Report is loaded.


So the Drill-Through Report had a visually appealing,
 user friendly Pie Chart,
 basically the interface to the Drill-Down Report.


I designed the Drill-Down Report with all + symbols collapsed 
leaving the Report in Summary format with just the Territory Group Name
and the Group's dollar totals being displayed.


The user now had the option to drill down for more details on the 
Territory Name,
 the Ship State,
 the Sales Rep's name and all related dollar totals.


The user can then navigate back to the Pie Chart and choose a different 
year for that year's details.


So here we can see that the Pie Chart Drill Through Report has access 
to many years of data while the Drill-Down Report provides data for 
just one particular year.


I gave the 4 other Dashboard Reports the same Drill-Through to Drilldown 
functionality and this fulfilled the requirements the Client had for this Dashboard.
