Tell me about your last project

For the last five years I've been
working as a Business Intelligence
Developer, two years as a Power BI
Developer at Guidant Global, and three
years as a Microsoft Business
Intelligence Developer at Cardinal
Financial. 

As a Microsoft Power BI Developer on a
project with Guidant Global my current
contracting assignment is with a UK
based, global talent acquisition, and
managed workforce solution provider. 

The company hires and tracks hundreds
of employees and candidates who are
contracting in different States, all
across the US and around the world.

In my last project I worked in an Agile
Software Development Life Cycle and
have participated in Sprint Planning,
Sprint Review and Daily Scrum
meetings. 

I was among the team of Power BI
Developers that created Reports and
Dashboards in monitoring the entire
process end to end, starting with
requisition opening, tracking quality
and quantity of submissions through
various vendors, monitoring the
progress through the selection process,
tracking work orders, start date and
end date of the assignment and so
forth.

I received this data from different
office locations and in Excel, XML, and
OLEDB formats but with the help of
Power BI Desktop, I extracted and
transformed the data using the Query
Editor, and performed data modelling to
ensure the Relationships between the
numerous tables were correct in order
to accurately calculate the results and
display the correct information in my
reports.

Once I completed the data extraction,
transformations, Query Merging and
Appending, transposing, Filling,
Pivoting, and so forth, I modeled the
data according to the business
requirements, and then loaded the data
into Power BI Desktop.

I created numerous reports and
published these to Power BI Services
where I pin them to a few Dashboards.

The main dashboard, I created to show a
consolidated summary of four different
areas that we were tracking,
represented by several KPI's comparing
them side by side. The KPIs always
showed the numbers from last month.

The KPI background showed what was
selected, so if no filters are
selected, it shows the trending for the
last year, but if a specific month is
selected, it shows just the numbers for
that month. All the KPI's conformed to
the filter selection.

I created several slicers and filters:
• Date slicers • company • Category, •
division, • subdivisions

These business areas are bookmarked to
jump to another dashboard page for that
business area. For example:

For the Requisition Dashboard I created
a Scatter plot, two KPIs along with
vendor response rate. So when a
requisition comes in, we looked at how
many we sent out vs how many responded.
This tells us how hard the position is
to fill. I used colors on the map to
show vendor response rate.

I created a Spend Dashboard to kee
track of suppliers who provide diverse
candidates. So, if a supplier has a
spike in the graph for diverse
candidates in the current month, the
forecast might show that it will go
back down if this supplier rarely
provides diverse candidates. For a
supplier supplying 100% diversity, the
forecast is projected to go up for this
one supplier.

Another dashboard I created was the
Headcount dashboard that shows the KPIs
for placements and contract ends.

So for each Dashboard the user can
drill through to the details pages to
see the detailed information about the
employees.

In Summary, I have developed actionable
Key Performance Indicators (KPI) such
as vendor response time, hire ratios,
requisition fill time, etc. using maps,
line charts, cards, ribbon charts,
scatter plots and different reporting
layouts from the Power BI Marketplace.

While developing these metrics, I have
gained experience with DAX to create
numerous complex calculated columns and
measures, data modeling, drill down
hierarchies, date-slicers, page level
and report level filters. And also,
publishing Power BI reports to the
Power BI Services, setting up gateways,
securities and permission level while
sharing reports. I have also
Incorporated new features such as Q&A,
sync slicers, bookmarks in Power BI
desktop. 
