The Differences between the Primary 
Key and Unique Key

First I'll discuss the similarities:
The Primary Key and Unique Key are 
very similar in that they both 
provide uniqueness to each row in a 
table, so they don't allow duplicates 
in columns that have a Primary Key or 
Unique Key constraint applied to it. 
Both, the Primary Key and Unique Key 
can use Composite Keys, in other words, 
the Key is created by more than one 
column to ensure uniqueness.

Those were the similarities.

The differences are:
The Primary Key column does not allow 
NULL values whereas a Unique Key 
column allows just one NULL value. 

A Primary Key Constraint on a column 
automatically gets a Clustered Index 
when created, while a Unique Key 
Constraint on a column is assigned a 
Non-Clustered Index. 

Primary Key values cannot be changed 
or deleted but Unique Key values can 
be changed.

In one project, while creating a 
customer table, I found that there 
were 2 customers from the same family 
(mother-daughter) with the same 
FirstName, LastName, Address, and they
even had the same PhoneNumber. So when 
their details were entered into the 
table, we needed to be able to 
distinguish between the 2 customers, 
and in line with best practices, the 
table had a Primary Key constraint on it, 
and in this case, applied to the the ID 
column, this made it possible to 
distinguish between the mother and 
daughter because the mother now had a 
different Customer ID than her daughter, 
even though they had identical personal 
details.

Of course one might argue that a social 
security number or emailaddress could 
make excellent Primary Keys but these 
can change because sometimes people are 
victims of crimes and need these 
personal details to be changed or 
deleted, so it might be a better option 
to just put Unique Constraints on these 
columns, allowing for changes and 
deletions, if needed.

A Unique Key is useful if you have a 
list of unique items in a column and 
require the user to select one item 
from the list, one of which is a NULL. 
So if you need to choose from a list of 
Titles like Mr. Miss, Dr, Professor, 
and NULL, you can choose null if your 
Title is not in the list or maybe you 
just don't like Titles. 

So the Unique Key Constraint on that 
column gives a developer the option of 
NULL without needing to code for it.

The Primary Key does not provide that
option.











