How do you handle security in SSRS? 
Explain with use-case examples.

In SSRS security is handled in two
ways, Authentication and Authorization,

We can use the analogy of Authentication
being the Gate to your property and
Authorization as the Door to your House.
You first come through the Gate to get to
the House. For this Gate and Door you'll
need a key or username and password.

So if you want access to the Reports,
you need to have permissions for the 
Server Domain and on the Authorization
level, you must have been granted 
access to specific databases amd datasets.

So, handling SSRS report security done
at the Data Source level is usually
managed by the DBA and the Report
Server level is predefined at two
levels, System Admin and System User.

The System Administrator Role by default
has permissions over the whole Report
Server.

Setting the security can be done at the
Group or Individual level, but the Group 
is created at the Server Domain level, in
other words, at the Gate not the door.

As a BI Developer for Cardinal Financials
I developed numerous Reports and 
Subscriptions, and was tasked to grant
the specific access and to ensure their
security at the Report Server level.

The Report Manager allowed me to grant
specific access to Users or Groups.

From the Report Manager home page and 
Site Settings I assign users or groups
to a System Role and sometimes I create 
or modify a System Role Definition.

The System Admin Role has the ability 
to View and modify system role 
assignments, system role definitions, 
system properties, and shared schedules.

The System User Role has the ability to
View system properties, shared schedules, 
and can use the Report Builder or other 
client applications that execute 
report definitions.

After setting up the Report Server level
Roles, I implimented security at the Report
Level where I selected which tasks 
a specific Role could perform on a specific
report. I have implemented requirements
where the user Role was the Browser	role
which allowed the User to view folders, 
reports and subscribe to reports.

I also setup users on specifice reports
as Content Manager	where the user could
manage content in the Report Server. 
This includes folders, reports and 
resources.

I also setup users on specifice reports
as Publisher	where the user could
publish reports and linked reports 
to the Report Server.

I also setup users on specifice reports
as Report Builder	where the user could
view report definitions.

Some had a combination of these roles
on specific reports.

I implimented User access Credential 
requirements which means that the user
has to have specific credentials for 
access to specific data sources.

I managed many different Admin and 
User Roles applying many different
access permissions to specific reports,
some to groups and others to 
individuals.

So, the DBA setup the Authenticated
groups and individuals and I merely
applied those to the numerous reports
at either Admin or User level on the
Report Server.


 



















