Tell me about your SSIS experience:

I've worked as an Interactive Dashboard
Developer and Data Analyst for the last 
3-4 years.

Working as a Business Intelligence 
Developer as an intern at Colaberry, 
I have gained good experience using 
SQL Server 2014 & 2017, Visual Studio 
2013 & 2017.

I have experience building ETL solutions
for numerous projects. I have worked with 
various data sources such as Object 
Linking and Embedding, Database (OLEDB), 
Excel, XML, flat files such as .txt 
and .csv files. 

For the various data destinations, 
I've used the OLEDB, Excel, and 
Flat File destination transformations.

I’ve extracted and transformed data 
using various Control flow and Data 
flow components such as Execute SQL 
Task, Script task, Send Mail task, 
Foreach Loop and Sequence containers

In a previous project I worked on,
I developed SSIS packages to bring data 
from existing OLTP databases, XML files,
and Excel files, to the new data 
warehouse by performing different 
transformations.

I designed these packages Using Control 
Flow Tasks like For Loop Container, For 
Each Loop Container, Sequential Container, 
Execute SQL Task and Data Flow Tasks.

I used a Foreach Loop Container to house 
the Data Flow Task to iterate through a set
of Excel files in a folder using Variables
and the Enumerator since these files had the
same meta-data.

Then I used a C# Script Task to load another
set of Excel files that had different meta-data.

I performed Data Conversion on the Excel and XML
sources, and then loaded these files and the data
from the OLTP database, into Staging tables and 
archived the Excel and XML source files and 
appended them with date and time information 
using the File System Task.

For the Data Validation and Error Handling
I Extracted the Staged Data and made 
use of a Derived Column Transformation to 
remove unwanted dashes, and brackets from 
phone numbers and Zip codes, and also 
unecessary letters in Zip codes.

Following that, I used a Conditional Split 
Transformation filtered and rerouted the 
Good Data from the Bad Data which had 
unwanted NULL rows, incorrect number of 
digits for phone numbers, Social Security 
Numbers, and Zip codes.

In order to send the Bad Data back for 
correction and validation via email, 
we used an Execute SQL Task and SendMail 
Stored Procedure, using the Database Mail 
in SQL Server.

I developed logs for the ETL load at package 
level and task level to log the number of 
records processed by each package and each 
task in a package using SSIS.

Finally, I developed SSIS jobs and scheduled 
packages using SQL server management studio 
for the daily load.

In Summary, I extracted and transformed 
the data using various Control flow and Data 
flow components.

The first ETL process was from source to 
Staging Table and the second ETL process
was from the Staged tables to the ODS
database after Error Handling and Data
Validation.

This is my SSIS experience.







I created stored procedures, triggers, 
user-defined functions, views handling business 
logic and functionality of various modules.

Performed maintenance duties like performance 
tuning and optimization of queries,
 functions and stored procedures

Established referential integrity,
 data consistency,
 indexing and data cleanup procedures to 
 maintain high quality data that can be used 
 for reporting
























Tell me about your SSIS experience:

I've worked as a Power BI Developer for 2 years and a BI Developer for 3 years, I've worked on SSIS and Developed Integration Services (SSIS) packages for extracting data from Flat Files, XML files, CSV files, Excel files, SQL Server, and Transformed and Loaded the data to a data warehouse.

In a previous project I worked on, I developed SSIS packages to bring data from existing OLTP databases to the new data warehouse by performing different transformations like lookup transformations, merge joins, derived columns, conditional split, and data conversion with multiple data flow tasks.

I implemented Various Error handling and Event Handling Techniques in SSIS to ensure efficient package execution. I developed logs for the ETL load at package level and task level to log the number of records processed by each package and each task in a package using SSIS. I developed SSIS jobs and scheduled packages using SQL server management studio for the daily load.

I designed packages Using Control Flow Tasks like For Loop Container, For Each Loop Container, Sequential Container, Execute SQL Task and Data Flow Tasks.

Created stored procedures, triggers, user-defined functions, views handling business logic and functionality of various modules.
Performed maintenance duties like performance tuning and optimization of queries, functions and stored procedures

Established referential integrity, data consistency, indexing and data cleanup procedures to maintain high quality data that can be used for reporting
