Tell me about your SSRS experience:

As a BI Developer at Cardinal Financial, I
created Sub-Reports, Drill through, Drill down,
Parameterized, Matrix reports, and Dashboards using SSRS.

I defined the report layout and identified datasets for the 
report generation. Developed reports using complex T-SQL 
queries, user defined functions, stored procedures and views.

I also enhanced SSRS report performance using numerous techniques.
Managed Report Subscriptions.

One of the Loan Department Heads required BI Analytical reports 
on a week-to-date, month-to-date and year-to-date basis so that 
she could manage the loan processing business a lot better than 
currently. 

She wanted to know the Loans to Date for Total loans, 
the Purpose of the loan, the Loan amount breakdown and the 
Property usage.

I created 6 parameters, so the report user could filter the data 
by Report Date, by Loan Amount, Loan Purpose, Property Usage, Age, 
Marital Status, Age, and Sex.

Of course, having the 6 parameters means that the report user can 
filter out what they want to see, whether by Age, loan amount, 
Loan Purpose, Property Usage, and so forth.

For the Loan To Date requirement I created a Loans To 
Date Dashboard and this included subreports like a Pie Chart that 
shows the user the number of loans to Date and the number of loans 
on any given date. 

In order to fulfill the requirement for week-to-date, month-to-date 
and year-to-date reports, I created 3 stacked column charts for 
this Dashboard.

From the SQL side of things, I created a stored procedure for 
LoansProcessed_ToDate, which services all for reports.

Another requirement was to know the Loans-to-date for Demographics 
like Marital Status, Race, and Sex. Here I created 4 stacked 
column charts using the the same LoansProcessed_ToDate 
stored procedure.

I then went ahead and did a more complex report that required 
additional Stored Procedures for LoanGauges, LoansByMonth, 
LoansByQuarter, and the Avg Loan's Monthly Income By Month.

I created the Loan Overview Dashboard which consists of 3 
subreports, namely: the Gauge Subreport that shows the 
MTD vs Prior 6 Month Avg, the Last Mth vs Prior 6 Mth Avg, 
and the QTD vs Last Full Quarter, loans.

I created an Area Chart Subreport that shows the 
Avg Loan and its % of Monthly Income By Month.

I created a 3D Clustered Cylinder chart Subreport that 
shows the Loan Count By Month and the Loan Count By Quarter.

So, in summary, I produced 3 Dashbords, the LTD Dashboard, 
the Demographics Dashboard, and the Overview Dashboard.

The LTD Dashboard shows a LTD Pie Chart and 3 stacked column 
charts showing the Count of Loans To Date by Purpose of Loan, 
by Property Usage, and by Loan Amount. 

The Demographics Dashboard has 4 stacked column charts showing 
Loans To Date by Race, Marital Status, Sex, and Age group.

The Overview Dashboard shows the MTD vs Prior 6 Month Avg, the 
Last Mth vs Prior 6 Mth Avg, and the QTD vs Last Full Quarter loans, 
the Avg Loan and its % of Monthly Income By Month, 
and the Loan Count By Month and the Loan Count By Quarter.



