Tell me about your SSRS experience:

As a BI Developer at Cardinal Financial, I
created Sub-Reports, Drill through, Drill down,
Parameterized, Matrix reports, and Dashboards 
using SSRS.

I defined the report layout and identified datasets 
for the report generation. Developed reports using 
complex T-SQL queries, user defined functions, 
stored procedures and views.

I also enhanced SSRS report performance using 
numerous techniques.

I Managed Report Subscriptions, standard and data driven.

In a recent project with Guidant Global, who hire and track 
large numbers of employees and contingent workers all 
across the US and around the world.

One of the requirements was for a dashboard to track the 
effectiveness and bottle-knecks in the hiring process as
well as the response-ratio of their vendors and quality
of candidates in terms of how many stayed on the project
after a 30 day period and also various client locations
that candidates were placed at.

I built reports using various charts and graphs to show 
the KPIs on the dashboard. I also created maps to show 
the various locations where the workers are placed.

I built various matrix reports for details about each
worker, such as the start-date, term duration, 
contract end-date, location working at, and so forth.

To feed these reports I built datasets by creating
queries and complex Stored Procedures so SQL Server
could do the heavy-lifting of aggregations and 
calculations, to enhance report rendering time
and improve performance.

I created parameters to make the reports dynamic and
created drill-through functionality to navigate from 
a report item on the dashboard to a drill-down 
report to show or hide the report details.

I published the reports to the report server and setup
permission and securities, creating data-driven
subscriptions delivered via email, share-drive, on a
daily, weekly, monthly basis depending on the 
requirements for each report.

I strive to deliver the best possible user-friendly
reports to give the users the best possible utilization
of their data that can help them make informed decisions.














